Welcome back to the solutions lecture for the project.
Exercise for spark data frames.
Let's jump right to the Jupiter notebook and get started.
All right.
So let's get started here I am at the notebook.
First thing I wanted to do was actually start a simple Spark's session.
I'll start by saying from Paice park sequel import Spark's session.
And then after that I will say Sparke is equal to lips Sparke session Daut builder app name.
And let's just give this something like a so-l for solutions and then get or create.
Now we want to load the Wal-Mart stock CSFB file and we want to have Sparc and further data types.
So we'll have DMF SPARC read CSFB and the first thing I want to do is pass in that Wal-Mart stock C
S V and I also want to say the header is true which hopefully are able to figure out.
And then we also want to say infer schema is equal to true and we can put this on multiple lines to
make it a little more readable.
So run that and then we want to know what are the column names.
Hopefully you remember that you can just call up columns to get a list of the column names to get what
the schema looks like.
All you have to do is say print schema and run that method and you can see the schema.
We have a time stamp.
Double double double integer for volume that makes sense and you can only trade a certain unit of stock
you can't trade points seven stock given the way that the state assets presented to us.
Next we want to actually say print out the first five columns so you don't actually need a for loop
for this in the solutions.
No but I should have for a loop.
But the other way you could just do this really quickly is just say head of five and this will eventually
show you the first five columns since this is a little messy.
What I ended up doing was saying for row in D-Nev. had five print the row and then we can see a little
bit of the same thing.
So to clean it up I just added a new line.
So that goes in as a string new and that breaks into line.
So that's how we got the solution.
If you just said DFA had a 5 that's totally okay to.
Now want to use the scribe to learn about the data frame.
Hopefully we're able to figure out that you had to say scribe and then show as well and then we can
see a summary it's going to look kind of weird to us but we can see the summary the low count etc..
And if you zoom out this will look a little nicer.
So just to kind of clarify as you zoom out more ill make more sense.
So zooming back in so you guys can see clearly.
Let's continue on.
All right.
Up next was the bonus question.
Now this is pretty tricky.
And there's a specific reason for that.
But the basic idea is there's too many decimal places if you go back up on this describe data frame.
So a way too many significant figures are just past that small.
And what we want to do is try to reduce that number.
Previously we showed you how to use format underscore number to do that but there's going to be an issue.
And the reason for that is because everything is a string.
So if I say DMF describe print schema and show the results of that notice the open is a string.
So is high so is low etc..
So now I have this issue that if I got something like describe how it actually format the numbers something
I could do is format strings but maybe I actually want to get numbers at the very end.
So how do you actually do that.
Well if he clicked on the link eventually you would see that you can actually cast stuff.
So let's walk through one possible way of doing this.
There's other possible ways so if you figure out another way feel free to share in the Q&A forums.
There is definitely more than one way to do this but one simple way early is maybe a little more straightforward
is import format number from PI sparked that sequel that functions and then we'll say result is equal
to the F describes so that actual description data frame and then eventually we say results selects.
I grab the summary column from results and then when I see him do all the columns is a call format number
passing the column I want to format.
So something like open and then cast it to something like a fluke or an integer.
And then I also want to clarify that during the cast I want to say to decimal places so that goes inside
this format numbers format number result cast floats.
That's the first argument instead of format number.
Second argument instead of format numbers too.
And then after all of that I want to make sure I give it an alias so will say alias open that way it
looks nicer instead of saying something like format number.
Open flow etc..
And that's basically how to do for all of them.
So I'm going to copy and paste from the solutions notebook just so we can see this little bit clear.
And I don't have to basically walk through a bunch of typing for you.
Let me zoom out and scroll up a little bit and zoom out one more time so you can see everything in one
cell.
So there it is.
All you have to do is say select and then format number Pessin the column they are trying to format
cast it to either a float or for the case of the volume and integer.
And then you're able to easily call the decimal places inside of format number and then I also use an
alias so it looked a little nicer.
So when I run this show at the end I get the sort of nice formatted data frame.
Now maybe the bonus question was super clear to you.
Again don't worry about it.
If he did it some other way or interpreted it differently.
Don't worry about it.
It wasn't a big deal and we won't have to do anything like this for the machine learning section of
the course.
Up next we wanted to create a new data frame with a column called HIV ratio which is the ratio of high
price versus volume stock traded for our day.
So let's zoom in and kind of handle this a little more then.
OK there we go and we'll say DFI 2 is equal to DMF with column H V ratio and that's going to be equal
to T.F. high divided by IDF volume.
So during the lectures in the previous section of the course we saw how we could kind of divide and
multiply numbers or a scalar against an entire column but you can do definitely the same thing with
column and columns so column divided by column or columns added together etc..
So after that we can just say the left to select and I'm just going to select that HIV ratio column
to show it.
And there it is DHV ratio column.
Now the next question was what they had the peak high in price.
There's different ways you can do this but one easy way to do this is just have order by.
I can say if ordered by an order by the high price but I want to make sure I'm ordering it in the Suddenlink
order which is why I passed it in as a column there.
So if I just run that I can see that I have this data frame.
So then if I show that data frame I can see I have all the information ordered and all I really want
is that very first one.
So what I'm going to do is instead of saying that show I will just grab the head.
So let's do that
and pass and one run that and now I can see the data.
So it was 2015 January 13th if actually just really want this date time I can index it out so I can
say grab that first row objects from that list and then grab the first item there which is date.
And here we have that daytime object.
Just more clearly.
Now what does the mean of the close column.
So that's pretty simple as well.
We'll save from PI spark thought sequel that functions import mean and then all you do is say select
mean from close and then show the results.
And here we have the select and there was the average close value a seventy two point thirty eight and
you can always format a number to format that more.
Now what is the max and min of the volume column Well again that's just an important function.
We'll say from Paice park functions import Maximin you could have also use the Agam method if you wanted
to.
But we're going to say if select the max volume and then we'll also say the volume
and then show the results here.
And then we get the exact same things.
The next question was how many days was the close lower than $60.
Lots of ways you can do this all the two main ways you could do something like filter in which case
you can use either the pure sequence syntax so close less than 60 and then account that or you could
say the filter and then do the python way which is close and then less than 60 count that so that's
using filter.
Now you could also use count as a function which again would use filter.
But let's show you how we can actually do that.
So we'll say from PI sparked sequel the functions import counts and a new cell say the result is equal
to DFT filter the close less than 60.
And then let's say you forgot that you couldn't do a count method directly after that.
Well you could always just imported that count and then say result.
So like the Count of close and then this should show pretty much the same result.
But in the form of a data frame and there it is Count close 81.
So in case you forgot that you could use the count method write off a filtered data frame.
You could always just import count as a function itself.
Kind of up to you however you want to approach that next question was What percentage of the time was
the high greater than $80 dollars.
So in other words the number of days the highest grade and 80 divided by the total days in the data
set.
So lots and lots of ways to do this are kind of go through a simpler one.
So I'll say the filter by when the high is greater than 80 and I'm going to then count the number of
days that occurred and then I'm going to divide this by DFI thought count.
So if I just do this I'll get some errors and I'm going to explain why in a second I get 0.09 since
I want the actual percentage what I need to do is multiply this by 100 Howard.
I don't want to multiply just the denominator.
I want to multiply this entire thing and if I run this now I get the actual percentage 9.1 for in some
earlier versions of SPARC you may get a 0 here and if you do it's because Spark's perform the classic
division instead of true the vision in which case you need to just multiply one of these by a floating
point number.
So one point zero and this will work exactly the same.
So keep that in mind for getting zero here.
Try multiplying by 1.0 on top.
All right.
So 9.4 percent of the time the price was higher than $80.
Now we wanted to say what does the Pearson correlation between high end volume.
There was a hint here.
But all you had to do was say from Paice Park
from Paice sparked that sequel that functions import that correlation function and then just select
that we select core and then passen high as well as volume and then show the results and there we go.
Now the next thing I want to say is what is the wups Max high per year.
So lots of ways we can do this.
We actually walk through a really similar process on this but we'll kind of go through it again.
We'll import year as a function and then say you're DMF is equal to death with column.
And I'm going to say with year pass and the year function along with the actual dates column note in
passing the date column not just the date string.
And then when I'm going to do after that is WIPs looks like we misspelled functions run that perfect.
And let me actually put a new cell below and we'll say Max DMF is equal to your DMF dot group by and
then we'll group by year and then also call Max with it.
And once that's done I'll say Max T.F. selects and we'll say year and I'm going to put in as a string
Max high because that's what it's going to show up after you say that Max on one of these columns and
then we'll say show it once that is then running we can see the max here.
So here's the year and here's the max high value 90 81 88 77 75.
And if you want to you could continue this by ordering by year in order to kind of see the results or
the trends.
If that was something that interested you then we have what does the average close for each calendar
month.
The final question.
In other words across all the years what's the average close price for January February March etc..
So let's kind of break this down into four steps first that is to say from Weissberg sequel that functions
import the month function and then after that we want to say create a month DSF and that's going to
be DSF with column that's going to take in the month column and then we'll pass in the month function
with date.
And in this case we can just put in data as a string.
So we'll run that as well.
And then we'll say month averages is equal to month DMF select and I'm going to select the month column
and then let's actually grab the close column as well.
And you don't have to put them in the list so some versions of Sparke require you to put them in a list
this way.
Other versions don't.
Newer versions are usually more flexible than the older versions but I always like to play it safe and
Passons a list so the total do there and then I'm willing to buy and I'll get by month and then play
call that mean at the end of this group by.
So kind of a lot.
Let me zoom out so we can kind of see the whole thing.
So let's call that month averages is equal to month DFI select Here's month and close group by a month
and then grabbed the mean of that.
So let's run that.
And then finally grab those month averages and I'm going to select the month column and the average
close call so note here that I'm not passing in the list and this should still work and then I'm also
going to order by the month just so it kind of looks in order and then let's show this.
And we should get our final result and there it is.
The average closing price per month.
So it looks like it doesn't matter what month it is.
Maybe there's a little higher average closing price or in certain months like July here July has 74
but it looks like the general trend is around all around the year you get an average closing price that's
roughly the same which hopefully makes sense.
All right.
Hopefully those exercises were OK some of them should have been a little challenging.
There were some hints there through in a couple of things you hadn't seen before but we're hopefully
able to figure out as far as these sort of functionalities.
We won't actually have to deal with them too often throughout the machine learning section of the course.
In fact SPARC is actually going to do a lot of the heavy lifting for us and make our lives a lot easier
by taking care of a lot of these functionalities for us within the actual machine learning algorithm
calls.
OK.
I hope we're excited to start with machine learning and we'll see at the next section in the course.